All recent Gnome-based Linux distributions look rather similar as far as starting up,
logging in, and shutting down.
So, we will briefly demonstrate that using VMware on Red Hat 7 host.
So, let's begin with CentOS 7,
so let me bring up VMware,
and I will pick CentOS 7.
I'll just say, ''Power On,'' and you'll see first,
it's letting me pick between different kernels that
we have, both the stock kernel that comes with CentOS,
as well as custom kernels that have been compiled.
Incidentally, the virtual machines that you see here,
are available on our website,
at least most of them,
that you can download and use with
the instructions you received when you began the course.
So, it takes about 10 or so seconds to get to the login screen,
which will come up shortly.
For succeeding virtual machines,
I will abbreviate this process,
so you don't have to wait through all this.
There you go. So now,
I will log in with the "student" account.
So, it's logging in,
and we have selected a custom background here,
but other than that, it's pretty much the default appearance.
Then I can log out by clicking on the upper right corner,
and hitting the power button,
and saying ''Power Off,'' and then it'll shut off pretty efficiently.
So next, let us do Ubuntu 17.04.
Okay. It's warning me about some things being missing on the host,
and if I wanted to,
in the GRUB screen,
hit "Return" on "Advanced Options",
you see it'll let me picked a particular kernel,
this one is actually going to boot into a custom kernel that we compiled, 4.110,
or I can scroll down and get the Ubuntu stock kernel here,
which is 4.10.024 generic.
I hit "Return", and then boot.
Now, let me hit "Pause",
so you don't have to see all this.
Now, I'm back at the login screen,
I skipped a few seconds there.
The Ubuntu desktop still looks somewhat different than the other GNOME desktops,
because it's still the Unity interface,
it's taking a few seconds to come up, there you go.
So, on the left, I have all my favorites listed, et cetera,
and then I can log out,
once again by going to the Power button on the right.
Then it looks a little different,
but there's still a "Shutdown",
and then, I'll select "Shutdown" instead of "Restart".
So, let me pause again.
Alright. So now, we're at the login screen,
and once again, it looks pretty similar.
It's asking for the password.
Once again, the login screen is remarkably the same,
the Power button is a standard GNOME power thing,
I click on that,
then I can click on "Power Off".
So, you see, other than cosmetic differences,
they all pretty much the same when you start up.